# Generalized Predictions for the Electromagnetic Signatures of Mirror Stars
This is the public repository for "Generalized Predictions for the Electromagnetic Signatures of Mirror Stars" by Franco Cabral, Stuart Williamson, David Curtin, Christopher D. Matzner (https://arxiv.org/abs/2604.00106)

For further questions regarding the following, please contact either of the first authors by email:\
Stuart Williamson (stuart.williamson@mail.utoronto.ca)\
Franco Cabral (############)

This repository contains all files required to reproduce our results including additional data for all nuggets analyzed in the paper. It also contains the plotting scripts used to create the figures in the paper.

## Description of files and directories
The code used to generate the optically thick nuggets we analyze is contained in the <code>module.py</code> and <code>physics.py</code> library files, with the scripts <code>make_profiles.py</code> and <code>make_paramspace.py</code> utilizing the <code>plotting.py</code> file to create figures 1 and 2 respectively. <code>example.ipynb</code> is an interactive notebook that walks through how to use the repository to create and manipulate optically thick nuggets as well as providing some methodology for the structure of the code.

The <code>data</code> directory contains the chemical abundances of the ISM we use (taken from the Cloudy settings used in https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.18086) as well as a table of low-temperature opacities (Freedman et al. 2014, https://doi.org/10.1088/0067-0049/214/2/25) that we use in this work. When imported, the <code>physics.py</code> file automatically loads these files for use in its functions.

The <code>em_signatures</code> directory contains code used to analyze the electromagnetic signatures of the generated nuggets, as well as to produce figures 3, 4, 5, and 6 of the paper. See the associated README for more information at <code>mirror_star_emissions/optically_thick/em_signatures/README.md</code>.

The <code>examples</code> directory contains data files created with the python built-in module <code>pickle</code>. These files contain nuggets that are used in the <code>example.ipynb</code> notebook to demonstrate the saving and loading of nugget files as well as to allow the notebook to be run without lengthy generation of data.

The <code>paramspace</code> directory contains data related to paper figure 2: A JSON file of nugget properties, some of which are the columns of figure 2, which is used to infer the electromagnetic signatures of these nuggets as well as PNG and PDF versions of figure 2 itself. This directory is also the default target location for <code>make_paramspace.py</code>, which create the above mentioned files as well as saves full profiles for every nugget generated. This file is not included in the repository due to size constraints.

The <code>profiles</code> directory contains the source nugget files and the resulting png files for figure 1, showcasing a convective nugget and a radiative nugget. These files are generated by the <code>make_profiles.py</code> script. 

## Use of python scripts 

To generate the plots of figure 1 and 2 in the paper, simply run the scripts <code>make_profiles.py</code> and <code>make_paramspace.py</code>.

Running these scripts, like the rest of the programs in the repository, requires the following python packages:
- numpy (1.26.4)
- scipy (1.15.1)
- matplotlib (3.7.1)

The <code>make_profiles.py</code> script generates a nugget file and plot for both a convective and a radiative example nugget in the directory <code>optically_thick/profiles</code>.

The <code>make_paramspace.py</code> script searches for self-conistent nuggets that have photospheric luminosity and total heating equal. At the beginning of the file there are the following parameters:
- <code>output_path</code>: Name of directory to place the results of the script, relative to the location of <code>make_parampace.py</code>. The script will create the directory if it does not exist.
- <code>rho_c_MS_fracs</code>: List of central mirror star densities to generate nuggets with, as a fraction of central solar density. Each entry Corresponds to a row of figure 2.
- <code>xis</code>: List of heating rates to generate nuggets with. These correspond to the x-axes of the plots in figure 2.
- <code>T_cs</code>: List of central temperatures to generate nuggets with. The default range of 10^2 - 10^8 covers physically reasonable nuggets.
- <code>L_ratio_error</code>: The maximum deviation from unity of the ratio L_photosphere/L_heating.
- <code>solver_tol</code>: The tolerance used by the internal ODE solver. A smaller value significantly increases runtime.

The <code>make_paramspace.py</code> script with default settings takes around 200-300 hours to generate the entire parameter space as it is single threaded. It is recommended to batch multiple jobs and combine the .nuggets files afterwards if you want to recreate our results.  


Last updated: June 24th 2026
